# Box 0.1.0 (April 13, 2023)

Here is the **official documentation** for Box version control. This documentation has information on using the command line interface (CLI) of the project.

## Version information

Being the first version of the Box project, this release may have various stabilities **although they are constantly tested**. So any bugs or errors in the application, please **open a [Github Issue](https://github.com/firlast/box/issues)**.

### Links

- [PyPI Release](https://pypi.org/project/box/0.1.0)
- [GitHub Release](https://github.com/firlast/box/releases/tag/v0.1.0)
- [Version change log](https://github.com/firlast/box/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#010)

## Installation

You can install Box version control with the `pip` package manager:

```
pip install box
```

Or, if you prefer, clone the official repository of the project and perform the manual installation by running the `setup.py` script. Here:

```
git clone https://github.com/firlast/box.git
cd box/
python3 setup.py install
```

## Box Setup

After installing Box, you need to define your name and email address that will be used in a commit's author information. This information will be visible to anyone using the `log` command. To do this we use the `config` command. Here is an example:

```
box config --name "Jaedson Silva" --email "mail@mail.com"
```

You can also change just the name or just the email with this command, just use the `--name` or `--email` flag.

## Initializing a repository

A repository contains a lot of information about the changes in your project; this is where all the data will be managed. To create a repository, use the `init` command, which initializes an empty repository in your current directory. Here is an example:

```
box init
```

After creating a repository, you can run all the other commands available in the application.

## Tracking files

Let's start **tracking files** with the `add` command. This command will trace the file, i.e. indicate whether it has changed or not. You can pass multiple filenames as arguments to this command. Here is a simple usage example:

```
box add README.md
```

In the example above, we are adding the file `README.md` to Box's trace tree. If you want to keep track of all the files in your directory, use the `-a` flag together with the `add` command. Here:

```
box add -a
```