# Box 0.2.0 (May 22, 2023)

Here is the **official documentation** for Box version control. This documentation has information on using the command line interface (CLI) of the project.

## Version information

This release may have various stabilities **although they are constantly tested**. So any bugs or errors in the application, please **open a [Github Issue](https://github.com/firlast/box/issues)**.

### Links

- [PyPI Release](https://pypi.org/project/box-vcs/0.2.0)
- [GitHub Release](https://github.com/firlast/box/releases/tag/v0.2.0)
- [Version change log](https://github.com/firlast/box/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#020)

## Installation

Installing Box using PIP from PyPI package manager:

```
pip install box-vcs
```

Or you can install Box version control cloning the official repository of the project and perform the manual installation by running the `setup.py` script. Here:

```
git clone https://github.com/firlast/box.git
cd box/
python3 setup.py install
```

## Box Setup

After installing Box, you need to define your name and email address that will be used in a commit's author information. This information will be visible to anyone using the `log` command. To do this we use the `config` command. Here is an example:

```
box config --name "Jaedson Silva" --email "mail@mail.com"
```

You can also change just the name or just the email with this command, just use the `--name` or `--email` flag.

## Initializing a repository

A repository contains a lot of information about the changes in your project; this is where all the data will be managed. To create a repository, use the `init` command, which initializes an empty repository in your current directory. Here is an example:

```
box init
```

After creating a repository, you can run all the other commands available in the application.

## Repository status

You can get the status of the repository with the `status` command. This command will return files that are **not being tracked** and files that have **not yet been committed**. 

## Tracking files

Let's start **tracking files** with the `add` command. This command will trace the file, i.e. indicate whether it has changed or not. You can pass multiple filenames as arguments to this command. Here is a simple usage example:

```
box add README.md
```

In the example above, we are adding the file `README.md` to Box's trace tree. If you want to keep track of all the files in your directory, use the `-a` flag together with the `add` command. Here:

```
box add -a
```

## Commit files

To save the changes to a file, use the `commit` command passing the name(s) of the file(s) to commit and the `-m` flag, which is used to provide a description of the commit being performed, i.e. a "comment" about what has changed. Here is an example:

```
box commit README.md -m 'create README.md file'
```

If you want to **commit all tracked and changed files**, use the `-am` flag and pass a commit comment afterwards. Example:

```
box commit -am 'create README.md file'
```

## Viewing file difference

You can view the changes to the commited files with the `diff` command, which displays the difference between the merging of all commits in the archive and the current archive. Here:

```
box diff
```

## Viewing commits

With the `log` command, you can view all the commits that have been performed. The information returned will be: number of files changed, commit ID, name and email of the author, date and time, and the commit message.

```
2 file(s) in 1e2cefc by author <email> (2023-04-13 09:06:32) 'first commit'
```

### Filter commits logs

You can filter commits logs by author name or author email. To do so, use the `--filter-by-name` flag to filter commits by author's name or the `--filter-by-email` flag to filter commits by author's email. In the example below, we are displaying **only the commits made by the author with the email** `boxvcs@mail.com`:

```
box log --filter-by-email "boxvcs@mail.com"
```

## Checking the integrity of commits

Box has a system that is constantly being improved to maintain the integrity of the commits, i.e. to prevent them from being changed by others. You can use the `integrity` command to check all commits ever made, the command will display the current state of the repository.